.\" $Id: air_coil_calc.man,v 1.2 2001/10/23 02:04:38 dan Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001 Dan McMahill
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software written by Dan McMahill
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and.\"or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"        This product includes software developed by Dan McMahill
.\"  4. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote products
.\"     derived from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\" 
.\"  THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\"  IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\"  OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\"  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\"  INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING,
.\"  BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
.\"  LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED
.\"  AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
.\"  OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\"  OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\"  SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"

.TH air_coil_calc 1 "March 2001" "Dan McMahill" "Wcalc"
.\".so ../sci.an
.SH NAME
air_coil_calc - Single layer air core solenoid inductor analysis
.SH CALLING SEQUENCE
.nf
[L,Q,SRF,len_out,fill_out] = air_coil_calc(N,len,fill,AWG,rho,dia,freq,flag);
.fi
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP 10
N
: Number of turns
.TP
len
: length of the coil (meters)
.TP
fill
: ratio of coil length to closewound length
.TP
AWG
: wire size (A.W.G.)
.TP
rho
: resistivity of wire (not used currently)
.TP
dia
: inside diameter of coil (meters)
.TP
freq
: analysis frequency (Hz)
.TP
flag
: used to calculate coil length.
.RS
.TP 5
flag=0
: the length given by len is used.
.TP
flag=1
: the length is calculated from the wire size, number of turns and
fill input.
.RE
.TP
L
: calculated inductance (H)
.TP
Q
: calculated quality factor
.TP
SRF
: calculated self resonant frequency (Hz)
.TP
len_out
: length used for the analysis (meters)
.TP
fill_out
: fill used for the analysis
.SH DESCRIPTION
function to analyze the electrical characteristics of a single layer,
uniformly spaced, air core, solenoid inductor.  The physical
dimensions of the coil are given as inputs and the inductance, quality
factor, and self resonant frequency are calculated.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
N=5;              // number of turns
len=0;            // we'll use the fill parameter instead
fill=1.2;         // the coil is 20% longer than the minimum
AWG=22;           // wire size
rho=1;            // not used yet
dia=0.25*0.0254;  // 0.25 inches inside diameter
f=10e6;           // 10 MHz operation
flag=1;           // use fill to calculate length
[L,Q,SRF,len_out,fill_out] = air_coil_calc(N,len,fill,AWG,rho,dia,f,flag);
printf("L=%g nH",L*1e9);
printf("Q=%g at %g MHz",Q,f/1e6);
printf("Self Resonant Freq=%g MHz",SRF/1e6);
printf("Length=%g inches",len_out/0.0254);
printf("Fill=%g",fill_out);
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
air_coil_syn
.SH AUTHOR
Dan McMahill
